What is the most unusual smell you've ever encountered?    
What's the first scent you smell upon entering your home?    
What is the most dangerous smell you can think of?    
If you were holding your favorite stuffed animal from childhood, what would it smell like?    
Peel an orange, inhale the scent, and what memory comes to mind?    
Write about the last time you touched something wet.    
Write about something you want to touch but can't or shouldn't.    
Imagine you can describe a sculpture by how it feels as you run your hands over it.    
Write about the earliest touch you can remember.    
Write about something you can't pass by without touching it.    
Describe the sound of snow falling on the roof if it were amplified.    
Describe the sound of a family holiday dinner.    
Play a piece of your favorite music and write about the first image that appears in your mind.    
Sit quietly for 2-3 minutes and identify the sound that is the farthest away. Describe it without naming it.    
What sound do you most like or dislike?    
Describe your face as you might see it reflected in a pool of water.    
Describe someone who doesn't know you are watching them.    
If anger were a creature, describe it.    
Describe your ideal writing place using only sensory details.    
Choose a painting and describe it without using the sense of sight. Use every other sense.    
What would it sound like if you amplified the sound of a gentle breeze through leaves?
Describe the taste of your favorite dessert without revealing what it is.    
Think of two of your favorite foods. Now write about how they might taste together.    
Write about the experience of tasting a foreign dish for the first time.    
What is the most vivid color you associate with a specific emotion?
Emotional:

What color are you (in mood or feeling) and why?    
What helps you breathe easy?    
How do you handle anger?    
What's special about this moment?    
Where have you felt most rejected?    
Where have you felt most accepted?    
What have you learned about yourself in the past year?    
What about yourself do you have trouble acknowledging?    
What do you need most right now?    
What are you looking forward to?    
What scares you the most?    
What's the most sacred thing about you?    
What makes you stand out in the crowd?    
What shocks you about yourself?    
Are you resisting change? If so, why?    
Have you made space in your life for what you want?    
What's a moment you will cherish forever?    
Do you have feelings for anyone that others don't know about?    
If you could tell your childhood crush one thing, what would it be?    
What's been the miracle in the mundane for you lately?    
What's your worst tendency?    
What's your best quality?    
What's your superpower?    
What's the superpower of the person across from you?    
If you could receive closure from one person, who would it be?    
Symbolic:

What do you represent? What do you want to embody?    
What is your ideal self? What does it mean to be your highest self?    
What object, found in nature or made by humans, best represents your current life stage?
If your life were a room, what would the decor be like?
What animal embodies your greatest fear?
If your mind were a garden, what kind of plants would grow there?
What color represents your energy levels right now?
If your personality were a musical instrument, which would it be?
What kind of weather best reflects your inner state today?
If your biggest dream were a journey, what would the landscape look like?
What is one label others have given you that resonates most deeply?    
Visualize (make pictures in your mind) what personal identity means to you.    
Visualize (make pictures in your mind) what social identity means to you.    
If you were a plant or animal, what would you be and why?    
If you were a piece of furniture, what would you be and why?    
If you were a color, what would you be and why?    
If you were a vehicle, what would you be and why?    
What is a recurring dream or image that feels deeply connected to who you are?
What is a personal motto or saying that guides you?
If your life were a tapestry, what would be the dominant colors and patterns?
Mythic:

What is your personal mission?    
What Biblical or literary figure do you most identify with, and why?    
If you had to write the story of your life, what would the major chapters be?    
What mythical creature best represents a challenge you have overcome?
If you could have a conversation with any mythological figure, who would it be and what would you ask?
What is a personal "quest" you are currently on?
Which of the classic archetypes (Hero, Sage, Trickster, etc.) do you most identify with right now?    
What is a personal "underworld" you have journeyed through?
What mythical object or artifact best symbolizes something you desire?
If your life were a myth being told around a campfire, what would be its central theme?
What are the operating principles of your life?    
What is your life's purpose?    
What are the treasures or special gifts you have?    
What is a time in your life when you felt most alive?    
What unspoken family rules did you grow up with?    
Abstract:

What is the feeling of silence to you?    
If time had a taste, what would it be?
Describe the texture of trust.
What is the shape of your intuition?
If memories had a scent, what would yours smell like?
What does the color blue taste like to you?
Describe the sound of hope.
If knowledge were a weight, how heavy would it be?
What is the temperature of a secret?
If your inner voice had a visual form, what would it be?
What is the most important thing you learned today and why?    
Imagine a classmate is absent. How would you explain today's lesson in 25 words or less?    
If you were creating a quiz about today's lesson, what are 2 questions you'd include?    
How would you explain what you learned today to someone in a grade below you?    
Imagine you're the teacher. Create a test question (with answer) related to today's activity.